---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-04-10
published: true
labels:

---


1) My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

Throughout the course of this semester, I have gained a considerable amount of knowledge and skills in programming, specifically in Java, node.js, and HTML. My progress can be attributed to the labs, WODs, and readings I've done. Thesehave allowed me to apply the concepts that I have learned in class and have contributed to my overall improvement. One of the things that I have noticed is my ability to adapt and learn new things quickly. For instance, I have learned how to use new functions, GET/POST methods, and build my own server, which was a completely new concept to me. I found it fascinating to discover 
how servers read, request, and send data of various files to other web pages without having to use the files on a personal computer. 

2) I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

A key area for me to improve is avoiding the tendency to blindly copy code without comprehending its functionality. Understanding the purpose of each line of code is crucial rather than simply transcribing it. Additionally, I must work on not abandoning a task when I encounter an issue with the outcome. It can be tempting to throw in the towel, but instead of giving up, I need to concentrate on the problem at hand and use critical thinking to devise a 
solution.

3) I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:

I agree. Although completing the WODs without a screencast can be time-consuming, it has allowed me to develop my own approach to coding that I can understand better, rather than simply copying the instructor's work. Building the code step by step has helped me to think more clearly and gain a better understanding of how to construct it. However, I think we need more WODs related to server-side and client-side programming before Assignment1. We only had a lab and no WODs related to server-side and client-side programming, which is a really important part of the assignment. It would be beneficial to have more practice on them.

4) The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

Undoubtedly, the labs have been a helpful learning tool for me. However, I'm uncertain whether I can complete them with confidence. While working through the labs, I have noticed that my understanding of the module's topics becomes clearer and I find pleasure in putting everything together. Although there are instances where I become confused and unsure about how to get the correct answer, with each lab I complete, my ability to reason through questions and think critically has improved a lot.

5) I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:

I found Assignment 1 really challenging despite my decent understanding of what we cover in class. The main difficulty was figuring out how all the pieces fit together. As a result, I found it challenging to think think through the problems in this assignment and had to do a lot of research. I realize that I need to review some concepts, as I may not have understood them as well as I thought. Overall I'm feeling pretty nervous for Assignment 2.

6) I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

To improve my learning experience, i think it would have been good to have more screencasts that demonstrate examples of the material being covered. Watching videos is more effective for me than the readings. At times, I find it challenging to keep up with the pace of the class, especially when we fall behind in the labs. Having access to more screencasts would allow me to review and understand the topics more thoroughly, which help me keep pace with the class. The screencasts can also serve as a helpful resource to revisit if I need clarification on a particular concept or if I need additional practice before moving on to the next topic. 

7) What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):

The labs we had during class were very useful, as were the WODs. During the in-class labs, I was able to watch the instructor code in real-time and follow along. This meant that if I had any questions or encountered any issues, I could ask for clarification on the spot. Sometimes the solution was something small that I might have otherwise gotten stuck on and prevented me from understanding a larger concept. The WODs were also helpful, as they provided a chance to practice what we had just learned in class. 
