---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5 essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-04-20
published: true
labels:

---
1.Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details

For assignment 2 we had to create login and registration forms aimed at went with the ecommerce store that we created in the previous assignment. Additionally, we were tasked with implementing a mechanism to store new registration data for future sessions. Further details on this assignment can be found <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html">here</a>.

2.What did you learn from this assignment?

I think the main thing I learned, and it was reinforced, is that I really need to start working on these assignments earlier. For both Assignment 1 and 2, I've only been giving myself a few days to complete the work, and as a result, my work is not as polished as I would like it to be. Additionally, I realized that I should be testing my website periodically on the class server. Towards the end of Assignment 2, I found that my website was not functioning exactly as I intended. Overall, I believe that allowing myself ample time to work on assignments is the key to success.

3.Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

I worked by myself.

4.How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

My go-to resource was usually Google. I would frequently find help for my issues on websites such as w3 and stackoverflow. Additionally, I would search for examples that were similar to the task or objective I was trying to achieve. I also sought help from fellow students. My main areas of need were setting up validation for registration and applying patterns.

5.How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?

This was different from Assignement1 because in that one you need to create a product page that is connected to an invoice.For assignment 2 you are also supposed to create login and registration pages to make the website more realistic by users to it and allowing users to come back to the page using the same log in username and password. Assignment #2 also had us working on the server for certain aspects including the data validation.

6.Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

For assignment2 I think I spent around 20% of the time thinking about how to do something, 30% writing code and about 60% (attempting) to debug my code. 

7.Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

For this assignment I am happy that I was able to get a mostly functioning website and I think I was able to address my mistakes from Assgnment1. Most of my pages work however I did have trouble with getting my registration page to work while using the class server, which is a problem I need to address in Assignment3. 

8.If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

As I said earlier, I would have started a lot earlier. That goes for pretty much the whole semester, because I procrastinate I end up in panic mode trying to get all of my work done and thus submit work that is not as good as it could be. I'll try not to make the same mistake for the last assignment.
